# [Episode 15](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lW_erSjyMeM&list=PLlasXeu85E9cQ32gLCvAvr9vNaUccPVNP&index=17): Asynchronous JavaScript & EVENT LOOP from scratch 🔥

### JavaScript Behind the Scenes

Browser = JS Engine + Web APIs + Event Loop + Callback Queue + Microtask Queue + other stuff

JS Engine: It has a call stack. When a JS code is executed, all execution happens via Call Stack. Whatever is popped off the call-stack, is executed.

Web APIs: Web APIs are provided by Browser to do certain tasks. Such as: Timer (setTimeout() function), DOM APIs, fetch(), console(), localStorage etc. things. All are attached with Window object.

Callback Queue: In this all the async functions or callback attached to  evnets or finctions inside settimeout are lined up in webapi environment first.When click event is trigged, then it is put in call back queue.When the call stack is empty.event loop keeps checking when call stack will be empty +.when its empty, then its microstack queue which contians call backs from fetch api which mentioned under promise or dom something changed, callbacks for that.after all tasks are exceuted from microtask queue, callbacks from call back queue are executed.first callback either from settimeout or callback from fetch both are registered in webapi, then we get response from fetch then it moves to microtak queue and when settimeout particular time i sover , we put in call bcal queue.If there are more microtasks , then callback functions in callback queue will be under starvation.

All the web APIs etc. are pushed in this.

Microtask Queue: This is of higher priority than the Callback Queue. It does same thing as Callback Queue. It contains the Callbacks relating to those of "Promises" and Mutations.

Event Loop: It is a Gate keeper. It keeps check that:
```
if(Call Stack === Empty && Callback Queue !== Empty){
    x = Callback Queue.pop()
    Call Stack.push(x);
}
else{
    wait(till Call Stack is not empty)
}
```



